<h3>Open football database</h3>

The goal of the free and open football database is to collect (and keep up to date) some
of the player data in a easy data format (json).

I don't actually intend to keep a record of the played matches and their results, awarded cards, scored
goals and such things which have to be kept up to data weekly / daily.

We will however try to collect:<ul>
<li>All players and their properties (name, position, squad number and so on).</li>
<li>All teams they play for, both club teams and national teams.</li>
<li>Only players in the CURRENT squad are collected (usually 23).</li>
<li>We really only want the bigger teams. Basically this means: all national teams which
  have a (remote) chance of participating in the EC, WC, CAN and such. And all club
  teams which usually participate in the Champions League, European League and so on.</li>
<li>All meta-data of the teams which is configured will also be written to the output.
Obviously, the country team names are culture specific (and player names aren't) so right now 
the only added cultures are Dutch (my native tongue) and English.</li>
</ul>
This means:<ul>
<li>Players can occur multiple times if they play for both club and national.</li>
<li>Players can disappear between new versions of the output generated by this software
  if they are no longer in the current squad of a team.</li>
</ul>
Keeping the data up to date is a hefty task, so we'll rely on the wikipedia community to do that
and we'll scrape the data of the team pages. However, not all pages on wiki are created equally
in terms of both quality and structure. Still, most of the pages of country teams and club teams
contain a separate 'Current Squad' section and with detailed configuration where the data is per
page we'll be able to get a decent repeatable scrape of the data.

This project will use the following stuff to realize this:<ul>
<li>A node.js project containing the modules 'htmltidy', 'xmldom' and 'xpath'.</li>
<li>A (rather large) config file containing meta-data about all the teams and also
  the xpath data determining the location of the current squad data.</li>
</ul>
Basic flow:<ul>
<li>Parse the config file.</li>
<li>Loop through all of the team configurations and GET the wiki page of the team.</li>
<li>Use xpath to extract the current squad data and map the data onto a pre-determined format.</li>
<li>Write the output to '<date>.json' in the output folder.</li>
<li>Any errors or messages are written to the '<date>.txt' in the log folder.</li>
</ul>
Note that if you are just interested in the result and not in the project itself, feel
<strong>absolutely</strong> free to just open the output and use the data
for whatever. Note also that right now (oct 2014) I'm still developing this project and the
'output.json' might still be empty, sorry about that :(.